packages/plugin-component/README.md, before:

# @mdit-vue/plugin-component

[![npm](https://badgen.net/npm/v/@mdit-vue/plugin-component)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mdit-vue/plugin-component)
[![license](https://badgen.net/github/license/mdit-vue/mdit-vue)](https://github.com/mdit-vue/mdit-vue/blob/main/LICENSE)

A [markdown-it](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it) plugin to allow Vue components in markdown.

- Treat [vue built-in components](https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-components.html) and unknown HTML tags as vue components (markdown-it would treat them as inline tags by default).
- Allow vue [`@` directive](https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-directives.html#v-on) on native HTML tags.
- With full tests.

## Install

```sh
npm i @mdit-vue/plugin-component
```

## Usage

This plugin will only take effects when the `html` option of markdown-it is enabled:

```ts
import MarkdownIt from 'markdown-it';
import { componentPlugin } from '@mdit-vue/plugin-component';

const md = MarkdownIt({ html: true }).use(componentPlugin, {
  // options
});

const rendered = md.render(
  `\
<!-- @ shorthand is supported -->
<Foo @click="onClick" />

<!-- multi-line syntax won't be wrapped with <p> -->
<Foo
  class="foo"
  :bar="bar"
/>
`,
);
```

## Options

### blockTags

- Type: `string[]`

- Default: `[]`

- Details:

  Extra tags to be treated as block tags.

  By default, all standard [HTML inline elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Inline_elements) will be treated as inline tags (excluding [Vue built-in special elements](https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-special-elements.html)).

  In some cases you might want to force some inline tags to behave like block tags. For example, when you create a Vue component with the same name as a standard HTML inline element (not recommended though).

  You can use this option to specify standard inline tags as block tags.

  Notice that this option is case-sensitive, and has higher priority than the [inlineTags](#inlinetags) option.

### inlineTags

- Type: `string[]`

- Default: `[]`

- Details:

  Extra tags to be treated as inline tags.

  By default, only standard [HTML inline elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Inline_elements) will be treated as inline tags (excluding [Vue built-in special elements](https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-special-elements.html)).

  All other unknown elements will be treated as block tags, because we are assuming that they are custom Vue components.

  Treating Vue components as block tags would work as expected in most cases. However, in some edge cases, the behavior of block tags is not ideal with Vue components. For example, when using a HTML block tag at the beginning of a list item, the following Markdown syntax in the same list item will be invalid, but users might want an inline Vue component there.

  You can use this option to specify unknown tags as inline tags.

  Notice that this option is case-sensitive, and has lower priority than the [blockTags](#blocktags) option.

Commit message:

fix(plugin-component): make component tags behave like inline tags in some cases
- self-closing at the beginning of a line
- open and close in the same line at the beginning of a line

packages/plugin-component/README.md, after:

# @mdit-vue/plugin-component

[![npm](https://badgen.net/npm/v/@mdit-vue/plugin-component)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mdit-vue/plugin-component)
[![license](https://badgen.net/github/license/mdit-vue/mdit-vue)](https://github.com/mdit-vue/mdit-vue/blob/main/LICENSE)

A [markdown-it](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it) plugin to allow Vue components in markdown.

- Treat [vue built-in components](https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-components.html) and unknown HTML tags as vue components (markdown-it would treat them as inline tags by default).
- Allow vue [`@` directive](https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-directives.html#v-on) on native HTML tags.
- With full tests.

## Install

```sh
npm i @mdit-vue/plugin-component
```

## Usage

This plugin will only take effects when the `html` option of markdown-it is enabled:

```ts
import MarkdownIt from 'markdown-it';
import { componentPlugin } from '@mdit-vue/plugin-component';

const md = MarkdownIt({ html: true }).use(componentPlugin, {
  // options
});

const rendered = md.render(
  `\
<!-- @ shorthand is supported -->
<Foo @click="onClick" />

<!-- multi-line syntax won't be wrapped with <p> -->
<Foo
  class="foo"
  :bar="bar"
/>
`,
);
```

## Options

### blockTags

- Type: `string[]`

- Default: `[]`

- Details:

  Extra tags to be treated as block tags.

  By default, all standard [HTML inline elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Inline_elements) will be treated as inline tags (excluding [Vue built-in special elements](https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-special-elements.html)). All unknown elements will be assumed as Vue components, and will be treated as block tags (with slight differences).

  In some cases (should be rare though) you might want to force some tags to behave like block tags, then you can use this option to specify the tag names.

  Notice that this option is case-sensitive, and has higher priority than the [inlineTags](#inlinetags) option.

### inlineTags

- Type: `string[]`

- Default: `[]`

- Details:

  Extra tags to be treated as inline tags.

  By default, only standard [HTML inline elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Inline_elements) will be treated as inline tags (excluding [Vue built-in special elements](https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-special-elements.html)). All unknown elements will be assumed as Vue components, and will be treated as block tags (with slight differences).

  Treating Vue components like block tags would work as expected in most cases. However, in some cases you might want to force some tags to behave like inline tags, then you can use this option to specify the tag names.

  Notice that this option is case-sensitive, and has lower priority than the [blockTags](#blocktags) option.
